---
layout: post
title: "Action Short Of a Strike"
comments: false
---

From December 4th the strike is off, but UCU members begin Action Short Of A Strike, or ASOS for short.

ASOS means that we will work only our contracted hours, and decline to fulfil voluntary tasks. You wouldn't think this would be a big issue, but the fact that a number of Universities have threatened to deduce 100% pay from staff who take ASOS demonstrates how much of a challenge this is to the way Universities work - they rely on staff doing more than they are paid for, and including extra tasks in their jobs that they shouldn't be required to do.

### For staff

Here is the [UCU FAQ on ASOS](https://www.ucu.org.uk/working-to-contract), which contains this section:


> [When you have worked your contracted hours] You should stop working and resume the uncompleted task(s) in the following week. If your line manager asks why other duties were not completed you should inform them that you have been unable to complete the remainder of your normal duties within the limits either of your contractual hours or the Working Time Regulations [WTR], and that you will resume them in the following week.

> It is important that all the tasks and functions you normally carry out are discharged. The work to rule does not mean that duties should not be done - it is simply a question of when you do them, and not exceeding the maximum hours stipulated in your contract or in workload agreements or established practice or, if there are no maximum hours, the WTR."

ASOS is a chance to put a limit on the work you do each week for the University, a reset on the unhealthy level of overwork which is endemic to the sector. It also helps convert the strike action of 25th November - 3rd December into sustained pressure for change. Universities are [systemmatically under investing in staff](https://www.ucu.org.uk/article/9626/UK-spends-less-than-international-competitors-on-university-staff-despite-highest-tuition-fees-report-finds), paying us less and relying on us to pick up more and more work. We need to show that the work requested of us isn't reseasonable.

### For students

You may experience delays in responses from staff, or delays in feedback on your work. If you feel that your queries or work is not being prioritised, you can email the head of department to ask them to have staff set your work as a higher priority.

You could also email your University vice-chancellor to ask that they resolve the dispute so the ASOS comes to an end.